So we have this form and we are taking the user inputs, updating the state, sending the request to
Pecan.
But Angular provides two different approaches for handling user input through forms, reactive and template
driven.
Both captures user input events from the view.
Validate the user input, create a form model and data model to update and provide a way to track changes.
So we are not going to go with our own implementation.
Now in this one, we will be refactoring the implementation to use the template driven form.
And the next one we will see how the reactive form is working.
So in this one, we are going to use template driven form.
And the first thing we need to do is let's open the app module and we are going to import a new module
and that's forms module.
So we are importing forms module from angular forms.
And since we are importing a new module, we also need to import this one in the test modules as well.
So in spec.
So just like importing shared module, we will import forms module and we will also do that in just
these as well right here from module saving all these changes and opening the karma window.
All these are passing at the moment.
We will be refactoring the implementation and the test will verify that the refactoring is working properly.
So we are using the template driven form and as it name implies, the implementation is form.
Implementation is based on the things we do in the template.
We were taking the user inputs with this input handlers right here.
We no longer need those.
So just removing H.
So removing input.
From these, then also we don't need to have the corresponding functions in the component, so we will
not need to change username on change email and change password.
So that's it.
So we have these properties in the class.
Username, email, password, password, repeat.
And we are going to update these from the, the, the fields right here and we will do that by using
IMG model attribute.
So this is this new model is coming with the, the forms module we just imported.
So right here, first thing is we need to set a name attribute for the input because the engine model
we are going to use requires that.
So like here, let's move this to New Line, this one as well.
So setting a name and name is going to be the the name in the component.
So this is for this field username.
So name is this one.
And also we will have IMG model, but the syntax is like this in parentheses and also in square brackets.
So this is two way binding and we are binding it to the username.
So again, we are using the same name we have here.
So the input value is associated with this class, this component class, username property.
So we will do this for the other fields as well.
So we will have name as email and energy model.
Email.
Let's do the same thing for a password.
Name?
Password.
N.G. model.
And the last one is name pass.
Words repeat.
Dingy model password repeat.
So with this IMG model, we have this two way data binding.
So whenever we change the username, the other fields, the field in the component is updated.
So the value for this input is automatically reflected to the property in this component.
And when we click to the sign up, since these are having the latest values, we will be sending the
data to backend.
So let's save these changes.
Now we see failure in the tests.
The JAZMIN tests are failing, but if you check the just tests they are passing.
Let's test this one on browser.
Let's open the network.
Tap here.
Now let's fill the form.
User.
60.
68.
Password.
Now hitting enter.
And here we see the request is going and receiving success.
So basically what we feel is sent to backend in the payload and it is working.
Now let's fix this karma test and if you check the failures, basically all the interactions tests are
broken and that's because.
Forms module is asynchronous and we need to wait for this fixture to be stable before filling the input.
So here in this setup form, we are directly interacting with the inputs and updating them, but at
the moment the forms module is not ready yet, so we must be waiting for it to be stable before typing
values into those and to do that.
We need to refactor this function to async and right here before like filling these.
Let's do this.
We will await fixture and it has this one stable.
So when the fixture is stable, we will be filling these inputs.
So the forms module will be ready and the values we are entering here will be passed to the component
properties.
Then the button will be enabled and we will be able to send the request to backend.
And so now since this function, this setup form is async, now we need to update both the test functions
to be async and we will wait here for the top form.
So we will do that here as well.
A async.
And let's repeat them here.
Just copying this one pasting here, I think.
And we are done saving this one.
And here we see the tests are passing.
So with the template driven form, we don't need to do anything in the component in terms of listening
for the changes in these inputs.
All we do is just we have these properties and we are associating these properties with the corresponding
inputs with the energy model like this.
So whenever we type anything into this one, that values is automatically reflected to the corresponding
property.
And since these properties are changing this disabled like here in the is disabled, we are checking
the equality of these and this is updating the button state.
The button is enabled.
Then when we click to the button, we are taking the values from these properties once again and sending
it to back end, which are containing what we entered in the inputs.
So this is how the template driven form is working.